Let's talk about complexity versus simplicity this is something that is really important that is not
often talked about.
I left this until the end of the course because you won't truly appreciate it and understand it unless
you have all the previous knowledge from the videos.
In my career I have met a lot of great developers engineers and leaders.
They had many great traits and they were all great programmers.
However they had one major thing in common that separated them from all the other Iver's developers.
And I don't even think they realized they had it.
It's something so simple that it is often overlooked.
And in this video I want to go over this and something that I truly believe can help you in your career
and that is always choose simplicity over complexity.
I know that's a bold statement but as you progress through your career you'll find yourself learning
more and more becoming more and more confident.
You start making sense of complex computer science topics.
You'll start to sometimes scoff at junior developers that are asking silly questions.
First off never do that.
You were that junior developer once too.
So was everybody else always accept questions but inevitably you will want to show off your skills sometimes
you may try and make coding choices that make people say wow he or she is so smart.
Or I have no idea what they just quoted but it looks so cool.
This is not good.
Too often I see developers choose complex options or coding styles in order to seem smart and capable
or just use a cool new function or trick that they recently learned.
Now the secret that the best developers I know use is that they always choose simplicity over complexity.
Writing code isn't a measure of how smart you are and how many things you know.
Writing code is about creating something that is of good quality.
What do I mean by that.
Good code is self documenting.
It is easy for someone new to come in look at your code and understand what it does.
Right away good code also minimizes bugs.
It allows people to not add bugs on top of it because it's clear and concise.
It's easy to read simplicity in code is making your code readable as if you just reading an English
manual.
But wait sometimes you do have to write complex code.
Not every person is going to be able to understand your code and that is true but complexity and simplicity
is on a spectrum not binary.
It's not either simplistic or complex.
That means it's not right or wrong.
Black and white.
It's all about trying to minimize the complexity of your code as much as you can remember although we
write code to speak with machines.
Machines that work to communicate and make our lives easier.
So next time you write code take a deep breath say to yourself what can I do to make this code simple
for anyone to understand while still maintaining my goal.
I don't need to show off.
I am aware of what I know and what I can do.
Let me write code that is easy to understand for people to understand to always choose simplicity over
complexity.